.TH xkb-qwerty-fr 7 "2022-09-06" 0.7.2 "Qwerty french keyboard"
.SH "NAME"
qwerty-fr - French qwerty keyboard mapping
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Keymap for french users of qwerty keyboard.
All french characters are directly accessible with AltGr and smartly mapped.
You also can compose french characters using dead keys with AltGr too. 
.SH "LINKS"
.SS Source repository
https://github.com/qwerty-fr/qwerty-fr
.SS Website
https://qwerty-fr.org

You can try the layout online on the website without installing it on your system.
.SS Feedback channel on Telegram
https://[FOO]/[BAR]VKW2Lnwd9hNDE0

Replace [FOO] with t.me, and [BAR] with +Ta (spam bot protection).

.SH "ENABLING THE QWERTY-FR KEYMAP"
.SS "Command line"
Use the command setxkbmap: setxkbmap us qwerty-fr
.SS "Gnome"
In menu System/Preferences, open Keyboard property. In this window, section Layout, click on the button add.
Then select layout USA and choose variant "With french symbols" and set it as default keymap.

WARNING - Make sure to disable compose key support or the dead keys of the layout won't work. See https://askubuntu.com/a/1028964
.SS "KDE"
In control panel, select the layout USA and variant "With french symbols", set it as default keymap, then validate.

.SH "EXTENDED CHARACTERS"
.SS "Direct characters"
.TP
Grave accent
Press AltGr + corresponding letter. (This works for letters e, u, i, o and a.)
.TP
Acute accent
Press AltGr + key left the corresponding letter. (This works for the letter e.)
.TP
Circumflex
Press AltGr + key above the corresponding letter. (This works for letters e, u, i, o and a.)
.TP
Diaeresis
Press AltGr + key bellow the corresponding letter. (This works for letters e, u, i, o and a.)
.TP
Cedilla
Press AltGr + corresponding letter. (This works for the letter c.)
.TP
Stuck e
Press AltGr + key right the corresponding letter. (This works for letters o and a.)

.SS "Characters with diacritics"
First, press the dead key with corresponding diacritics and in a second time the character to compose with.
.TP
Greek dead key
AltGr + g
.TP
Currency dead key
AltGr + Shift + 4
.TP
Grave accent dead key
AltGr + inverted quote
.TP
Acute accent dead key
AltGr + quote
.TP
Circumflex dead key
AltGr + 6
.TP
Diaeresis dead key
AltGr + double quote (AltGr + Shift + quote)
.TP
Cedilla dead key
AltGr + comma
.TP
Ogonek dead key
AltGr + Shift + comma
.TP
Tild dead key
AltGr + tild (AltGr + Shift + inverted quote)
.TP
Above ring dead key
Shift + degree (AltGr + Shift + semicolon)
.TP
Caron dead key
Shift + circumflex dead key (AltGr + Shift + 6)
.TP
Macron dead key
AltGr + number sign (AltGr + Shift + 4)
.TP
Double acute dead key
AltGr + at sign (AltGr + Shift + 2)

.SS "Uppercase characters with diacritics"
.TP
In case of generating a direct character:
Press shift modifier while pressing other keys.
.TP
In case of generating a composed character:
First press corresponding diacritics dead key then press shift + the character to compose with.
.TP
Using Caps locks...
is the last way you can use to write in uppercase.

.SH "LAYOUT OVERVIEW"
An overall view of the layout is available in the utf8 text file /usr/share/doc/xkb-qwerty-fr/keymap.txt

.SH "TESTING TEXT"
You should be able to retype this french text without dead keys :

"Dès Noël où un zéphyr haï me vêt de glaçons würmiens je dîne d'exquis rôtis de bœuf au kir à l'aÿ d'âge mûr & cæera !"

(Jacques André - Petites leçons de typographie)

.SH "FILES"
.TP
/etc/X11/xkb/symbols/us
The file containing the mapping of characters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
setxkbmap(1)
.SH "AUTHOR"
This package is maintained by Paul <devnoname120@gmail.com>.
All files of the package are released under GNU/GPL 2.0 License.

